 2 
 

  

4. 
Type of Commission
.
 

 

(a) 
Permanent  Commission  (PC)  for Men
.  Candidates  joining as PC officers  would 
continue  to serve till the age of superannuation  in their respective branches as per their rank . 
   
 (b)
 Short Service Commission (SSC) for  Men & Women
.
 
 

(i) The engagement period for 
Flying Branch
 (Men and Women) SSC Officers is 
fourteen years from the date of Commissioning  (
Non extendable
). 
  
(ii) The initial tenure for 
Ground Duty (Technical & Non-Technical) 
SSC Officers 
would be for a period of 
ten years
. An extension of 
four years
 may be granted subject 
to 
service  requirements,  availability  of  vacancies, willingness,  suitability  and 
merit. 

    
(iii) Grant  of Permanent  Commission  (PC)  would  be  considered  subject  to  service 
requirements,  availability  of vacancies,  willingness,  suitability, merit and  as  per 
prevailing policies on the subject . 
 
(iv) SSC officers presently are not eligible for grant of pensionary benefits.  
 
5. 
Eligibility Conditions
.
 
 
 
(a)
 Nationality
. Candidate must be a citizen of India  as per Indian citizenship act, 1955 . 

 

 (b) 
Age
.
 
   
 
(i) 
Flying Branch  through  AFCAT and NCC Special Entry
:  
20 to 24 years 
as on 

01 July 2023 
i.e. born between 
02 July 1999 to 01 July 2003 
(both dates inclusive). 
Upper  age  limit  for  candidates  holding  valid  and  current  Commercial  Pilot License 
issued  by 
DGCA 
(India)  is  relaxable  upto  26  years  i.e.  born  between  

02 July 1997 to 01 July 2003 
(both dates inclusive). 
 
(ii) 
Ground  Duty  (Technical  & Non-Technical)  Branch
: 
20  to  26 
years  as  on  

01 July 2023 
i.e. born between 
02 July1997 to
 
01 July 2003 
(both dates inclusive).   
 
(iii) 
Marital Status
: Candidates below 25 years of age must be unmarried  at the time 
of commencement  of course. Widows/ Widowers and  divorcees  (with  or without 
encumbrances) below 25 years of age are also not eligible. A candidate who marries 
subsequent to the date of his application though successful at SSB or medical will not 
be eligible for training. A candidate who marries during the period of training shall be 
discharged and will be liable to refund all expenditure incurred on him by the   
 
Government. Married candidates above 25 years of age are eligible to apply but during 
training period they will neither be provided married accommodation nor can they live 
out with family. 
 
(iv) The  date  of  birth  accepted  by  the  IAF  is  that  entered  in  the  Matriculation  or 
Secondary  School  Leaving  Certificate  or  in  a  certificate  recognised  by  an  Indian 
University as equivalent to Matriculation or in an extract from a Register of Matriculates 
maintained by a University, the extract must be certified by the proper authority of the 
University or in the Higher Secondary or an equivalent examination certificate. No other 
document related to  age  like  horoscopes,  affidavits,  birth  extracts  from  Municipal 
Corporation, service records and likewise will be accepted.  
  3 
 
(v) In case the  Matriculation/ Higher  Secondary  Examination  Certificate  does  not 
show the date of birth, or only shows the age by completed years or completed years 
and months. In such cases a candidate must possess a self-attested/ certified copy of a 
certificate from the Headmaster/ Principal of the Institution from where he/ she passed 
the Matriculation/ Higher Secondary Examination showing the date of his/ her birth or 
exact age as recorded in the  Admission Register of the Institution.  
 
(vi)  Candidates  should  note  that  only  the  Date  of  Birth  as  recorded  in  the 
Matriculation/ Higher Secondary Examination Certificate or an equivalent certificate on 
the date of submission of application will be accepted by the IAF and no subsequent 
request for its change will be considered or granted.  
 
(vii) 
The candidates should exercise due care while entering their Date of Birth. 
If on verification at any subsequent stage, variation is found in their date of birth 
from the one entered in their Matriculation or equivalent examination certificate, 
will render them disqualified .  

 
  (c)
 Educational Qualifications
 .
 
 

(i) 
Flying Branch
. Candidates should have mandatorily passed with a 
minimum
 of 
50% marks each in Maths and  Physics at 10+2 level 
and
  
 
(a)  Graduation with minimum three years degree course in any discipline from a 
recognized University with a  minimum of 60% marks or equivalent.   

OR
 
(b)   BE/B Tech degree (Four years course) from a recognised University with a 
minimum of 60% marks or equivalent.  

OR 

(c)     Candidates  who  have  cleared  Section  A  &  B  examination  of  Associate 
Membership  of  Institution  of Engineers  (India)  or  Aeronautical  Society  of  India 
from a recognised University with a minimum of 60% marks or equivalent.  
   
  (ii) 
Ground Duty (Technical) Branch
 . 
    
(aa) 
Aeronautical Engineer (Electronics) {AE (L)}
.          Candidates  with  a 
minimum  of 50% marks  each  in  Physics  and  Mathematics  at  10+2  level  and a 
minimum of four years degree graduation/integrated post-graduation qualification 
in  Engineering/  Technology  from recognized University 
OR 
cleared  Sections  A 
and B examination of Associate Membership of Institution of Engineers (India) or 
Aeronautical  Society  of  India  or  Graduate  membership  examination  of  the 
Institution of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineers by actual studies with 
a minimum of 60% marks or e quivalent in the following disciplines: - 
 
(aaa) Applied Electronics & Instrumentation.  
(aab)  Communication Engineering.  
(aac)  Computer Engineering/Technology.  
(aad)  Computer Engineering & Application.    
(aae)  Computer Science and Engineering/Technology . 
(aaf)  Electrical and Computer Engineering.    
(aag)  Electrical and Electronics Engineering.   
(aah)  Electrical Engineering. 
(aaj)  Electronics Engineering/ Technology.  
(aak)  Electronics Science and Engineering.  
(aal)   Electronics. 
 
 
  4 
 
 
(aam)  Electronics and Communication Engineering.  
(aan)  Electronics and Computer Science.  
(aao)  Electronics and/or Telecommunication Engineering.  
(aap)  Electronics and/or Telecommunication Engineering (Microwave).    
(aaq)  Electronics and Computer Engineering.  
(aar)   Electronics Communication and Instrumentation Engineering.  
(aas)  Electronics Instrument & Control.   
(aat)   Electronics Instrument & Control Engineering.  
(aau)  Instrumentation & Control Engineering.  
(aav)  Instrument & Control Engineering.  

(aaw) 
Information Technology.  
     (aax) Spacecraft Technology. 
      (aay) Engineering Physics. 
      (aaz)  Electric Power and Machinery Engineering.  
      (aba) Infotech Engineering. 
  (abb) Cyber Security. 
 
(ab)  
Aeronautical  Engineer  (Mechanical)  {AE  (M)}
.      Candidates with  a 
minimum of 50% marks each in Physics and Mathematics at 10+2 level 
and
 a 

minimum
 of  four  years  degree  graduation/integrated  post-graduation 
qualification  in  Engineering/Technology  from  recognised University 
OR 
cleared 
Sections A & B examination of Associate Membership of Institution of Engineers 
(India) or
 
Aeronautical Society of India by actual studies with a minimum of 60% 
marks or equivalent in the following disciplines: - 
 
(aaa)  Aerospace Engineering.  
(aab)  Aeronautical Engineering.  
(aac)  Aircraft Maintenance Engineering .  
(aad)  Mechanical Engineering.  
(aae)  Mechanical Engineering and Automation .  
(aaf)  Mechanical Engineering (Production) .  
(aag)  Mechanical Engineering (Repair and Maintenance) .  
(aah)  Mechatronics.  
(aaj)  Industrial Engineering. 
(aak) Manufacturing Engineering.  
(aal) Production and Industrial Engineering.  
(aam) Materials Science and Engineering.  
(aan) Metallurgical and Materials Engineering.  
 (aao) Aerospace and Applied Mechanics.  
 (aap) Automotive Engineering. 
 (aaq) Robotics 
 (aar) Nanotechnology 
 (aas) Rubber Technology and Rubber Engineering.  
 
  
 
(iii) 
Ground Duty (Non -Technical) Branches
 . 

    

(aa)  
Administration  & Logistics
 . Passed  10+2  and  Graduate  Degree  (Minimum 
three years degree course) in any discipline from a recognised university with a 

minimum 
of 60% marks or equivalent or cleared section A & B examination of 
Associate Membership of Institution of Engineers (India) or Aeronautical Society 
of India from a recognised university with a minimum of 60% marks or equivalent.  
    
 
  5 
 
(ab) 
Accounts Branch
.    Passed  10+2  and  done  graduation  in  any  of  the 
following streams with 60 % marks  or equivalent from a recognized university :- 
 
(aaa) B. Com Degree (Min three years course).  
(aab) Bachelor  of  Business  Administration  (with  specialization  in 
Finance)/  Bachelor  of  Management  Studies  (with  specialization  in 
Finance)/ Bachelor of Business Studies (with specialization in Finance)   
(aac) Qualified CA/ CMA/ CS/ CFA. 
(aad) B.Sc. with specialization in Finance.  
 
(ac) 
Education.
  Passed 10+2 and Post -Graduation with 50% marks in any discipline 
including integrated courses offering PG (Single degree without permission to exit and lateral 
entry) and with 60%  marks in Graduation in any disciple.  
    
(iv) 
Meteorology
. Passed 10+2 and Post Graduate Degree in any Science stream/ 
Mathematics/  Statistics/ Geography/ Computer  Applications/ Environmental  Science/ 
Applied  Physics/  Oceanography/ Meteorology/ Agricultural  Meteorology/ Ecology  & 
Environment/ Geo-physics/ Environmental  Biology  with 
minimum 
of  50%  marks  in  
aggregate  of  all  papers  put  together  (
Provided  Maths  and  Physics  were  
studied at Graduation Level with a minimum of 55% marks in each). 
  
 

 
 (iv) 
Note
.
  
 

(aa) Only  those  candidates  who  have  given  12
th
 standard  in  10+2  pattern  of 
examination are eligible to apply for these courses.   
 
(ab)
 Two seats are reserved for Law qualified candidates in Ground duty 
(Non-Tech)  branches and these candidates may get employed  on  legal 
duties of the IAF (after commissioning). 

  
(ac) In case the candidates are awarded grades/ CGPA instead of marks, 
the 
conversion of grades/ CGPA to percentage of marks 
would be based on the 
procedure certified by the University from where they have obtained the degree. 
In  case  the  University  does  not  have  any  scheme  for  converting  CGPA  to 
percentage  conversion  certificate,  CGPA  will  be  converted  into  10  points  scale 
and multiplied by 10 to get equivalent percentage.   
 
(ad) Candidates  who  are  studying  in  the  final  year/ semester  Degree  course 
and  are yet  to  pass  the final  year degree  examination  can  also  apply  provided 
candidate should  not  have  any  present  backlog and  should  have  secured  a 

minimum
 of  60%  marks up  to the  last semester/ year  for  which  results have 
been declared up to the time of submission of application. They are required to 
submit proof of passing the Degree Examination by  
30 May 23
 and no request for 
extending  this  date  will  be  entertained  on  the  grounds  of late  conduct  of  basic 
qualifying  University  Examination,  delay  in  declaration  of  results  or  any  other 
ground whatsoever. 
  
(ae)  Candidates  who  have  failed  the  Computerised Pilot  Selection  System 
(CPSS) in an earlier attempt or a Flight Cadet suspended from flying training at 
Air Force Academy will not be eligible to apply in 
 Flying Branch
. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  6 
 
(d)  Candidates who were admitted to an earlier course at the National Defence Academy, 
Indian  Military  Acade
my,  Air  Force  Academy,  Indian  Naval  Academy,  Officers’  Training 

Academy,  Chennai 
and Officer’s Training Academy 
Gaya but  were  removed  on grounds  of 
indiscipline are ineligible to apply. 
 
(e) Candidates  who  are  debarred  by  the  Ministry  of  Defence  from  holding  any  type  of 
commission  in  the  Defence  Services  shall  not  be  eligible  for AFCAT  and  if  admitted,  their 
candidature will be cancelled.  
 
(f) Candidates who have been convicted on criminal charges and those who are still stuck 
in a criminal case are not eligible to apply. 
 
6. 
Physical and Medical Standards
 .    Guidelines with regard to physical and medical standards 
for candidates are as provided in the 
Appendix 
‘A’
 to the notification. 
 
7. 
How to Apply
. Aspirants  for  IAF  are  required  to  apply  online  by  using  the  link 

https://careerindianairforce.cdac.in
 , or 
https://afcat.cdac.in
. Aadhaar Card is mandatory for online 
registration. Detailed instructions for filling in the online application form are appended below: - 
 
(a) Applicants need to exercise utmost care while filling in the online application. In case 
any information is found to be incorrect, the candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage 
of  the  selection  process.
 Please  verify  the  correctness  of  information entered  in  all  the 

fields before proceeding with the “Make Payment” option.  Applicants will not be able to 
edit the previous details entered after the selection of “Course Preferences” step and 
after the “Make
 
Payment” step.
 

 
(b) 
If an applicant has submitted more than one application, only the latest submitted 
application form against a particular  Aadhaar Number, will be considered for issue of 
Admit Card. However, the fee deposited while filling additional applications will not be 
refundable. 
 

(c) Applicants will be required to complete the process of Online Application form which will 
have the following sequence s. Details in tabular form are given in Para 7 (h) below: - 
 
 (i) Click 
“CANDIDATE LOGIN’’
 on the Home page- leads to AFCAT Sign-in.  
  (ii) In  the  next  page,  applicants  to  click 
“NOT  YET  REGISTERED?  REGISTER 
HERE”
. 

(iii) Sign Up: Creation of Log-in ID and applicant will receive a password in his/her 
registered email id. 
(iv) After  successful  registration,  sign-in  with  registered  email  id  and  system 
generated password. 
(v) Reset  Password- Log-Out (candidates  must  remember  their  login  ID  and 
password for future use during the examination process) . 
 
  7 
 
(vi) Fresh Log-in. 
(vii) Selection  of  Entry: 
“AFCAT”; “NCC  S
PECIAL  ENTRY  FOR  FLYING 

BRANCH”
, 
“METEOROLOGY ENTRY”
 . 

(viii) Click 
“INSTRUCTIONS”. 
Read Instructions carefully . 
(ix) Acknowledgement of having read and understood instructions - Check box to 
proceed to next stage. 
(x) Click 
“APPLICATION FORM FILLING”
  
(aa) 
Personal Information
. Fill in details.  
Click 
“SAVE AND CONTINUE” 
  
At  this  stage  confirmation  box  will  appear  for  re-verification  of  the 
following details:- 

 
Name 


 
Father’s Name
 


 
Mother’s Name
 


 
Date of Birth 


 
Gender 


 
Aadhaar Number 

Note:-
 Please recheck these details, confirm the correctness and continue. 
Post 
this  confirmation,  DOB  and  Gender  will  not  be  allowed  to  be  changed  at 
any  subsequent  stage  under  any  circumstances  whatsoever
 and  your 
candidature  will  be  rejected  at  any  stage  whenever  any  wrong  information  is 
detected. 
 
(ab) 
Qualification Details
. Fill in details.  
Click 
“SAVE AND CONTINUE”
  to proceed to next stage 
(ac) 
Course Preference
. Fill in details.  
Click 
“SAVE AND CONTINUE” 
 to proceed to next stage 
(ad) 
Communication Details
. Fill in details. 
Click 
“SAVE AND CONTINUE” 
 to proceed to next stage 
(ae) 
Upload  Documents
.  Upload recent Photo,  Signature  &  Thumb 
Impression (size  of  each  jpg/  jpeg  file  to  be  between  10  and  50  kb). Name  of 
each jpg/jpeg image file should correspond to the document  i.e. 


 
Name  of  the  Signature  File  should  be 
Signature.jpg  or 
Signature.jpeg
 


 
Name of Photo File should be 
 Photo.jpg or Photo.jpeg
  


 
Name of Thumb Impression File should be
 Thumb Impression.jpg or 
Thumb Impression.jpeg
 

Note:- 
 Application  with  inappropriate  image  will  be  considered 
invalid  and  the  candidature  will  be  rejected  along  with  other  counterfeit 
entries, whenever detected at any stage of the selection process.  
 
  8 
 
(af) 
Exam City Selection
. Select from drop-down menu 
(ag) 
Declaration
 
Click 
“SAVE AND CONTINUE” 
 to proceed to next stage 
 (xi) Click 
“MAKE PAYMENT”
- Online (applicable only for AFCAT)  
(xii) Click 
“PAYMENT  STATUS”
 to  view  whether  payment  is  successful.  If 
Registration Number is displayed, it implies that the payment is successful.   
(xiii) 
For  AFCAT  Candidates  Only
: On
 10  Aug 22 (1700  hrs)  onwards
 click 

“DOWNLOAD  ADMIT  CARD” 
to  download  your  Admit  Card  from  the  website 

https://afcat.cdac.in
 and you will also receive admit card on your registered email ID. If 
the candidate does not receive his/ her admit card in their registered email id or is not 
able to download the same from the mentioned website, he/ she is required to enquire 
from  AFCAT Query  Cell  at  C-DAC,  Pune.  (
Phone  Nos: 020-25503105  or  020-
25503106
). E-Mail queries may be addressed to 
 afcatcell@cdac.in
. 
(d) While filling in the online application, the applicant must ensure that he/ she meets all 
the  eligibility  conditions  including  the  educational  qualification  which  must  conform  to  the 
guidelines/ norms of the relevant educational board/ UGC, as reviewed and updated from time 
to time.  The applicants are advised to keep the relevant documents rea dy, as details are to be 
filled in as per matriculation and other educational certificates. The educational qualifications 
filled  by  the  applicant  should  correspond  to  the  Entry  Level  Qualification  (ELQ)  as  given  in 
Para 5 (c) of this notification. If any of the eligibility conditions is not met, the candidature is 
liable to be rejected at any stage during the selection process and the onus of the same would 
be  on  the  candidate  himself/  herself.  With  regard  to  Integrated  degree  programmes,  the 
following are the prevailing UGC guidelines: - 
 (i) 
Integrated/ Dual Degree
.  As per the guiding principles laid down by UGC, if the 
Integrated/  Dual  Degree  Programmes  intend  to  offer  two  separate  degrees  with  an 
option  for  interim  exit  or  lateral  entry,  the  duration  of the  Integrated/  Dual  Degree 
Programme must not be less than the duration equal to the sum total of the prescribed 
duration  of  the  two  degrees  that  are  being  combined  in  the  programme.  All  such 
programmes  should  carry  the  nomenclature  of  Integrated/  Dual  Degree  (Name  of  the 
first  degree) - (Name  of  the  final  degree);  both  the  degrees  awarded  under  the 
programme  should  be  individually  and  separately  recognised  as  equivalent  to 
corresponding degrees and not as one single integrated degree).    
 
(ii) 
Integrated Single Degree
. If the Integrated Programme intends to offer a single 
degree  without  permission  to  exit  and  lateral  entry,  the  programme  duration  may  be 
relaxed  by  not  more  than  25%  of  the  sum  total  of  the  prescribed  duration  of  the  two 
degrees that are being combined to make the single integrated degree.  
 
(e) Before filling in the online application, an applicant should have the following scanned 
images saved as jpg/ jpeg files (size of each file to be between 10 and 50 kb)  
(i) Recent passport size colour  photograph 
(ii) Signature  
 
  9 
 
(iii) Thumb  impression  (left  thumb  for  male  applicants  and  right  thumb  for  female 
applicants) - created by pressing on ink stamp pad and then on plain blank paper  
(f) While filling in the online application form, applicants are required to click 
“SAVE AND 
CONTINUE” 
to complete the process of each part. If the mandatory fields (marked by a red 
asterisk (*)) are not filled, the 
“SUBMIT
” button would not be enabled for the
 applicants to click 
and proceed to the next part of the application form.  
(g) 
Once the “Course Preference” stage is saved, applicants will not be able to edit/ modify 
previous  data  in  the  “Personal  Information”  and  “Qualification  details”  pages.  Only  the 
“Communication Details” page can be edited, if an applicant wishes to do so. After the “Make 
Payment”  step,  applicants  will be able  to  check  the  “Payment  Status” as  well  as  “Preview 
Application”. However, no further changes or correction is possible in the
 online  application 
form. Thereafter, the only option for an applicant, if an application is to be amended, is to re-
register  with  a  different  email  id  and  fill  the  online  application  form  anew.  The  fee  paid, 
including on any additional online application  form(s), will not be refundable.   
 
(h)
 Examination fee for AFCAT Entry
 . After  filling  in  the  online  application  form, 
the 
examination fee of Rs. 250/- (non-refundable) for AFCAT entry (not applicable for NCC 
special entry & Meteorology entry) may be paid online 
through the 
‘Make Payment
’
 step 
on the main menu of the online application. No cash or cheque or demand draft (DD) will be 
accepted towards payment of examination fee. The examination fee can be paid using credit/ 
debit cards/ net banking through the payment gateway. Applicants are advised to follow the 
instructions/ steps given on the payment gateway, and also print/keep the transaction details 

for their  records.  After confirmation from  bank  that  the  payment  is received,  the  “Payment 
Status”  will  display  “Registration  Number”  which  the  candidate  may  note  down  for  future 

correspondence. Simultaneously, the candidate will receive a confirmatory sms/ e-mail. This 
will be followed by Admit Card (with the Hall Ticket Number) which a candidate will receive on 
his/her registered email ID  and which is also downloadable f rom his/her registered email ID .   
(j)
 
Detailed instructions on filling in the online application form:  
 
   
S. No
 
Description
 
1.   
Sign
 
up Format
 
 Full Name As per 10th Matriculation Passing Certificate- all in 
alphabet of max 50 characters  
 Father
’s kame 䥮⁡汰habe琠of max業um‵M cha牡捴e牳  
 Mo瑨er
’猠乡me 䥮⁡汰habe琠of max業um‵M cha牡捴e牳  
 bma楬 id ema楬 id 瑯⁢e⁵sed 景r⁓楧n-inF 
 kationa汩瑹 䥮d楡n 
 Mob楬e kumber NM⁤楧楴猠 
 pe捲整⁑uestion pe汥捴 one f牯m⁯ptions 
 pe捲整⁁n獷er 䥮⁡汰habe琠of max業um‵M cha牡捴e牳  
 CAmT䍈A  bn瑥爠alphanume物c tex琠獨own   10 
 
   
2
.   
Personal Information
 
(a) Type of Entry Applicant has to choose entry to IAF through one 
of the options 
(i)  AFCAT 
(ii)  NCC Special Entry 
(iii) Meteorology Entry 
 
 (b) 
Candidate’s Name (As 
per NM
th/matriculation 
passing certificate) 
These fields will be auto filled from the signup data 
entered by the applicant. (c) 
Candidate’s Father
’猠
kame 䅳⁰e爠
㄰
th/matriculation 
passing certificate) 
(d) 
Candidate’s  Mother
’猠
kame  ⡁猠 per 
㄰
th/matriculation 
passing certificate) 
(e) Email Address  
(f) Secondary  Email 
Address Email id other than which the applicant has signed -
up with 
(g) Nationality  
(h) Mobile Number  
(i) 
Candidate’s  Visible 
䥤en瑩f楣慴ion Ma牫 䥮⁡汰habe琠of max業um‵M cha牡捴e牳  
⡪F Cmpp⽐ABq⁓ta瑵s App汩捡n琠 ha猠 瑯  捨oo獥  ma獳ed⼠ 䙡楬ed⼠ kot 
appeared㬠 
䥦⁰a獳ed f楬l the deta楬s from (i⤠瑯 (ivF  
⡩F Cmpp⽐ABq  Batch 
kumber kume物c salue 
⡩椩 Cmpp⽐ABq  aate  o映
massing 䑄LMMMLvvvv 
⡩楩F Cmpp⽐ABq  Che獴 
ko. kume物c salue 
⡩vF Cmpp⽐ABq  a瑴ended 
a琠 wh楣栠 A楲  䙯rce 
pe汥捴楯n⁂oa牤 Choo獥 one f牯m the l楳琠aehradunⰠ䝡ndh楮aga爬 
My獯牥Ⱐsarana獩 
(kF ao you have a cu牲ent 
va汩d Commercia氠m楬ot 
i楣敮獥  楳獵ed  by 
adCA? pe汥捴 
‘ves
’ o爠
‘乯
’ 
⡬F Are  you  獥rving 
A楲man of⁉A䘿 pe汥捴 
‘ves
’ o爠
‘乯
’
 
If Yes, fill the details from (i) to (iv)  
(i) Select Rank in IAF Choose one from the list 
(ii) Service Number Alphanumeric 
(iii) Current Posted Unit Alphanumeric 
(iv) Select Command Choose one from the list 